Case Study Chess Piece
----------------------

*Overview*. The *chess piece* product line originates from a [Pilotfabrik TU Wien - Industrie 4.0](https://www.pilotfabrik.at). In the project researchers investigated the production of the six types of chess pieces in the *Pilotfabrik TU Wien - Industrie 4.0*.

The real-world *chess piece* product line is produced in an academic production system, the *Pilotfabrik TU Wien - Industrie 4.0* at [Pilotfabrik TU Wien - Industrie 4.0](https://www.pilotfabrik.at). In the Pilot Factory at TU Wien research and testing is carried out to determine how the industry of tomorrow should look like. For this particular use case we consider a part of the Pilot Factory that has a portal, a cutting and turning machine, a Keyence quality control, a robot arm, an AGV, a 3D printer, and an assembly station. The setup can manipulate different products using and can be flexibly configured. The chess piece use case is of low complexity with six possible types and no dependencies between the features in the product structure itself.

*Data Collection*. A collaborating engineer and researcher (not an author of this paper) working at the Pilotfabrik created the use case for the machinery at the Pilotfabrik with colleagues providing us with the primary data for the case study. We received and discussed a different engineering artifacts, from CAD drawings of the products, over a detailed plans of the shop floor, to process sequence plans of the BPMN workflows. We analyzed the data manually extracting the information of the product line and its variants to derive the case study.

*Variability*. The *chess piece* product line consists of six variants that contain 3 parts. In particular, the chess pieces consist of a *base*, a *body*, and a threaded *rod* that connects these two parts. The *base* is produced from *aluminum bars* of 1m length on a *turning machine*. The *aluminum bar* is first *loaded into* the *turning machine* with a *bar loader*. Then the *turning machine* *cuts* the *aluminum bar* into the raw *bases* of suitable length for further processing. These *bases* are then *turned* on the *turning machine* to get their specific shape. Furthermore, the bases come in two versions. The king and the queen have the base with *two circumferential reamings* that are *carved into the aluminum*. The other chess pieces have a base that has *one reaming*. After their creation, the bases are measured with a *laser profiler* for turning accuracy. The *body* of the particular chess pieces is 3D-printed from \gls{pla* on an industrial *3D printer*. The *base* and the *body* each have a hole with a thread carved respectively printed in the middle. The threads each have a diameter for a standardized M6 *rod*.\footnote{ISO metric screw threads: [M2 threads](https://w.wiki/_wm23). Similarly to the base, the threaded *rod* comes in two versions, one with *20 millimeters* and one with *30 millimeters* in length. The *base*, the *body*, and the threaded *rod* are then assembled in an *assembly station*, where each individual part needs to be loaded into the station.
Then, the parts need to be screwed together, where there are several possibilities of the process sequence.

*Configuration/Assembly*. The assembly sequence of the chess pieces has a particular process sequence in the production system but is relatively free except. For the production of the different variants, the same production resources are used. Therefore, we consider the case’s complexity to be at a low level.

*Summary* The complexity of the chess pieces product line with consists with six product variants is considered low.